Cloud solutions that tailor their services to companies frequently follow the aaS (as a service) architecture, with three primary models: 
infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and software as a service (SaaS). 

IAM, or Identity and Access Management, helps ensure secure access to AWS services and resources.
 The IAM user console enables you to create and manage AWS users and groups as well as allow and deny access to AWS resources.

EC2, or Elastic Compute Cloud, is a secure, scalable web service designed to simplify cloud computing. As the name suggests, 
EC2 offers flexibility when you need to obtain and 
configure capacity for your web applications. You’ll use EC2 to configure a Linux server to host your application.

DynamoDB is a NoSQL key-value and document database that delivers incredibly fast performance—no matter the size of your data. 
This fully managed and multi-region database provides built-in security, backup, 
and in-memory caching for web applications. You’ll use DynamoDB as the database for your application in this course.

pm2 is a Node.js production process manager that helps you manage your web application—and keep it live online. 
You’ll use this package to keep your application running even after you’ve logged out of the server on EC2.

nginx, sometimes stylized as NGINX or NginX, is a free and open-source web server that can also serve as a reverse proxy, 
load balancer, mail proxy, or HTTP cache. You’ll use it as an application server to expose the EC2 instance to the internet.

Hardware costs, rental space, and utilities have to be considered, as well as maintenance and data center operators to oversee both software and hardware.
Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources through the internet, 
which enables companies to use remote data centers to serve applications on a pay-as-you-go basis.

With cloud computing, a company can instead focus on their core competencies and 
shift the administrative infrastructure and IT work onto a cloud provider.

The private cloud has specific access points that only certain devices or IP addresses can enter.
The public cloud, on the other hand, can be accessed from any device through any IP address
 hybrid cloud combines features of public and private clouds—which is useful for organizations like a government agency that needs both high security to store private data and a public-facing interface for the community.
 PaaS models are built for developers that don't have an IT administrative background and just want to plug-and-play.
 The difference between PaaS and Saas is that SaaS is for end users.
 In the PaaS model, the application is served to users through the cloud, which runs the application and stores the user's data, typically for a subscription fee. 
 GitHub is an example of a SaaS, as many companies pay GitHub to secure their source code and use their tools.
  Other popular SaaS companies include Zoom, Microsoft Office, Adobe, Salesforce, DoorDash, and Peloton.
  The amazing profit margins that a SaaS company can attain demonstrates the economic feasibility of using cloud computing to deliver software solutions in a consistent and reliable manner.


   Infrastructure-as-a Service, or IaaS. This model is used mainly by IT administrators and developers who are savvy with computer systems. 
    IaaS resembles PaaS but offers more control in choosing computer system requirements such as operating system, networking, middleware, and runtime environments.
We're almost finished setting up the AWS account, but we still have another important task to accomplish: creating the IAM user.
 IAM stands for Identity and Access Management. This is the system that AWS has devised to set up permissions for their web services.
 An IAM group is a set of service permissions that an IAM user can be assigned to, for quick access.

 As discussed previously, having an effective security system in place is an integral part of using the cloud. 
 AWS achieves this by having the IAM only allow access according to the services using IAM roles or grant permission to 
 users with IAM users. An IAM group is a set of service permissions that an IAM user can be assigned to, for quick access.

Activate Two-Step Authentication
First we need to follow best practices by creating an MFA authentication step for the root user account. 
To do that, follow these steps:

To begin, let's navigate to the IAM console by typing "IAM" in the services input field.

Select IAM to navigate to the IAM console.

Select Dashboard in the side bar menu if you're not already on that page.

In the Security Alert section, we'll see a warning that requests an MFA to be enabled. Select Enable MFA.

Select the Activate MFA button.

Select the Virtual MFA device, then select Continue.

From the list of Virtual MFA Applications available, select the Google Authenticator.

Add this app to your phone. If you don't have a phone available, skip this step.

Once the app has been downloaded, scan the QR code.

Insert two consecutive MFA codes into the input fields.

Once the MFA authentication has been accepted, we can rest assured that even if the email and password 
to the AWS account are compromised, this extra layer of security will prevent illicit access.

Create an IAM User
The next step is to create an new user. According to the AWS documentation, 
"Don't use your AWS account root user credentials to access AWS, and don't give your credentials to anyone else. 
Instead, create individual users for anyone who needs access to your AWS account."

Follow these steps to create an IAM user:

In the IAM console Dashboard, select the Users option in the left-hand menu.

Select Add user.

Enter the User name in the input field. Make sure to also copy down this information somewhere, as you do with other usernames and passwords.

For Access type, select Programmatic access and AWS Management Console access.

Create a password for this user. Make sure to also copy down this information somewhere, as you do with other usernames and passwords.

Uncheck the box to prompt this user to create a new password.

In the Set permission section, select "Create group".

In the Group name input field, type Admins.

Check the box for Administrator Access.

Select the "Create group" button to add this user to the Admins security group.

Select Next: Tags.

Select Review.

Select "Create user."
